COLAB_INSTRUCTIONS.md, before:

# WattWise-FL: Complete Pipeline for Google Colab

## ⚠️ Important: Data Setup

The BDG2 electricity.csv file is **167 MB** and cannot be downloaded directly from GitHub in Colab.

### **Option 1: Clone Your Repository (EASIEST)** ✅

Your GitHub repository already has all the data. Just run:

```python
!git clone https://github.com/aryaMehta26/WattWise-FL-Federated-Privacy-Preserving-Energy-Forecasts-for-Smart-Buildings.git
%cd WattWise-FL-Federated-Privacy-Preserving-Energy-Forecasts-for-Smart-Buildings

# Now run the 3 step scripts:
!python src/step1_data_cleaning.py
!python src/step2_feature_engineering.py
!python src/step3_train_models.py
```

### **Option 2: Upload Files Manually**

1. Download these files from your local `data/raw/` folder:
   - `electricity.csv` (167 MB)
   - `metadata.csv` (266 KB)
   - `weather.csv` (19 MB)

2. Upload to Colab:

```python
from google.colab import files
import shutil
from pathlib import Path

# Upload files
print("Upload electricity.csv, metadata.csv, and weather.csv:")
uploaded = files.upload()

# Move to data/raw/
Path('data/raw').mkdir(parents=True, exist_ok=True)
for filename in uploaded.keys():
    shutil.move(filename, f'data/raw/{filename}')
    print(f"✅ Moved {filename} to data/raw/")
```

3. Then run the pipeline (see below)

---

## 📊 Complete Pipeline Code (After Data Setup)

### 1. Install Dependencies

```python
!pip install lightgbm interpret scikit-learn pandas numpy matplotlib seaborn pyyaml -q
print("✅ Dependencies installed!")
```

### 2. Setup Directories

```python
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
from pathlib import Path
import warnings
warnings.filterwarnings('ignore')

Path('data/raw').mkdir(parents=True, exist_ok=True)
Path('data/interim').mkdir(parents=True, exist_ok=True)
Path('data/processed').mkdir(parents=True, exist_ok=True)
Path('models').mkdir(parents=True, exist_ok=True)

print("✅ Directories created!")
```

### 3. Data Cleaning

```python
print("="*70)
print("📊 STEP 1: DATA CLEANING")
print("="*70)

# Load electricity data
print("\nLoading electricity data...")
electricity = pd.read_csv('data/raw/electricity.csv')
electricity['timestamp'] = pd.to_datetime(electricity['timestamp'])

# Check if wide format
building_cols = [c for c in electricity.columns if c != 'timestamp']
print(f"  Detected {len(building_cols)} building columns (wide format)")

# Melt to long format
print("  Melting to long format...")
electricity_long = electricity.melt(
    id_vars=['timestamp'],
    var_name='building_id',
    value_name='meter_reading'
)

# Filter date range (6 months for speed)
electricity_long = electricity_long[
    (electricity_long['timestamp'] >= '2016-01-01') &
    (electricity_long['timestamp'] <= '2016-06-30')
]

# Load metadata
print("\nLoading metadata...")
metadata = pd.read_csv('data/raw/metadata.csv')

# Load weather
print("Loading weather data...")
weather = pd.read_csv('data/raw/weather.csv')
weather['timestamp'] = pd.to_datetime(weather['timestamp'])

# Merge everything
print("\nMerging datasets...")
df = electricity_long.merge(metadata, on='building_id', how='left')
df = df.merge(weather, on=['site_id', 'timestamp'], how='left')

# Drop missing values
df = df.dropna(subset=['meter_reading', 'air_temperature'])

# Save
df.to_pickle('data/interim/cleaned_data.pkl')

# Print metrics
print("\n" + "="*70)
print("📊 CLEANED DATA METRICS")
print("="*70)
print(f"Total Rows: {df.shape[0]:,}")
print(f"Total Columns: {df.shape[1]}")
print(f"Memory Usage: {df.memory_usage(deep=True).sum() / 1024**3:.2f} GB")
print(f"Date Range: {df['timestamp'].min()} to {df['timestamp'].max()}")
print(f"Number of Buildings: {df['building_id'].nunique()}")
print(f"Number of Sites: {df['site_id'].nunique()}")
print("="*70)

cleaned_data = df.copy()
print("\n✅ Step 1 Complete!")
```

### 4. Feature Engineering

```python
print("="*70)
print("📊 STEP 2: FEATURE ENGINEERING")
print("="*70)

# Calendar features
print("\nAdding calendar features...")
df['hour'] = df['timestamp'].dt.hour
df['day_of_week'] = df['timestamp'].dt.dayofweek
df['month'] = df['timestamp'].dt.month
df['is_weekend'] = (df['day_of_week'] >= 5).astype(int)

# Cyclical encoding
df['hour_sin'] = np.sin(2 * np.pi * df['hour'] / 24)
df['hour_cos'] = np.cos(2 * np.pi * df['hour'] / 24)
df['day_sin'] = np.sin(2 * np.pi * df['day_of_week'] / 7)
df['day_cos'] = np.cos(2 * np.pi * df['day_of_week'] / 7)

# Weather features
print("Adding weather features...")
df['temp_rolling_24h'] = df.groupby('building_id')['air_temperature'].transform(
    lambda x: x.rolling(window=24, min_periods=1).mean()
)

# Building features
print("Adding building features...")
df['building_age'] = 2016 - df['year_built']
df['log_square_feet'] = np.log1p(df['square_feet'])

# Lag features (MOST IMPORTANT!)
print("Adding lag features...")
df = df.sort_values(['building_id', 'timestamp'])
df['meter_reading_lag_1h'] = df.groupby('building_id')['meter_reading'].shift(1)
df['meter_reading_lag_24h'] = df.groupby('building_id')['meter_reading'].shift(24)
df['meter_reading_rolling_24h_mean'] = df.groupby('building_id')['meter_reading'].transform(
    lambda x: x.rolling(window=24, min_periods=1).mean()
)

# Drop rows with missing lags
initial_rows = len(df)
df = df.dropna(subset=['meter_reading_lag_1h', 'meter_reading_lag_24h'])
dropped_rows = initial_rows - len(df)

# Save
df.to_pickle('data/processed/final_features.pkl')

# Print metrics
print("\n" + "="*70)
print("📊 FEATURE-ENGINEERED DATA METRICS")
print("="*70)
print(f"Total Rows: {df.shape[0]:,}")
print(f"Total Columns: {df.shape[1]}")
print(f"Features Added: {df.shape[1] - cleaned_data.shape[1]}")
print(f"Rows Dropped (lag warm-up): {dropped_rows:,}")
print("="*70)

feature_data = df.copy()
print("\n✅ Step 2 Complete!")
```

### 5. Model Training

```python
from sklearn.metrics import r2_score, mean_absolute_error, mean_squared_error
import lightgbm as lgb
from interpret.glassbox import ExplainableBoostingRegressor

print("="*70)
print("📊 STEP 3: MODEL TRAINING")
print("="*70)

# Train/Test Split (time-based)
print("\nSplitting train/test sets...")
dates = df['timestamp'].sort_values().unique()
split_date = dates[int(len(dates) * 0.8)]

train_df = df[df['timestamp'] < split_date]
test_df = df[df['timestamp'] >= split_date]

print(f"  Train: {train_df['timestamp'].min()} -> {train_df['timestamp'].max()}")
print(f"  Test:  {test_df['timestamp'].min()} -> {test_df['timestamp'].max()}")
print(f"  Train Rows: {len(train_df):,} ({len(train_df)/len(df)*100:.1f}%)")
print(f"  Test Rows:  {len(test_df):,} ({len(test_df)/len(df)*100:.1f}%)")

# Select features
target = 'meter_reading'
exclude_cols = ['timestamp', 'meter_reading', 'site_id', 'building_id', 'meter', 
               'primary_use', 'primary_use_grouped', 'timestamp_weather']

features = [c for c in df.columns if c not in exclude_cols]
features = [c for c in features if pd.api.types.is_numeric_dtype(df[c])]

X_train = train_df[features]
y_train = train_df[target]
X_test = test_df[features]
y_test = test_df[target]

print(f"\n  Training with {len(features)} features")

# Train LightGBM
print("\n[MODEL 1] Training LightGBM...")
lgb_model = lgb.LGBMRegressor(n_estimators=100, random_state=42, verbose=-1)
lgb_model.fit(X_train, y_train)

# Predict
y_pred_lgb = lgb_model.predict(X_test)

# Metrics
r2_lgb = r2_score(y_test, y_pred_lgb)
mae_lgb = mean_absolute_error(y_test, y_pred_lgb)
rmsle_lgb = np.sqrt(mean_squared_error(np.log1p(y_test), np.log1p(y_pred_lgb)))

print(f"  R2 Score: {r2_lgb:.4f} ({r2_lgb*100:.1f}% Accuracy)")
print(f"  RMSLE: {rmsle_lgb:.4f}")
print(f"  MAE: {mae_lgb:.2f} kWh")

# Train EBM (on sample for speed)
print("\n[MODEL 2] Training EBM (on 10k sample)...")
sample_size = min(10000, len(X_train))
X_train_sample = X_train.sample(sample_size, random_state=42)
y_train_sample = y_train.loc[X_train_sample.index]

ebm_model = ExplainableBoostingRegressor(random_state=42)
ebm_model.fit(X_train_sample, y_train_sample)

# Predict
y_pred_ebm = ebm_model.predict(X_test)

# Metrics
r2_ebm = r2_score(y_test, y_pred_ebm)
mae_ebm = mean_absolute_error(y_test, y_pred_ebm)
rmsle_ebm = np.sqrt(mean_squared_error(np.log1p(y_test), np.log1p(y_pred_ebm)))

print(f"  R2 Score: {r2_ebm:.4f} ({r2_ebm*100:.1f}% Accuracy)")
print(f"  RMSLE: {rmsle_ebm:.4f}")
print(f"  MAE: {mae_ebm:.2f} kWh")

# Save results
results_df = X_test.copy()
results_df['Actual'] = y_test
results_df['Predicted_LGBM'] = y_pred_lgb
results_df['Predicted_EBM'] = y_pred_ebm
results_df['timestamp'] = test_df['timestamp']
results_df['building_id'] = test_df['building_id']

# Save sample for one building
sample_building = results_df['building_id'].iloc[0]
dashboard_df = results_df[results_df['building_id'] == sample_building].copy()
dashboard_df.to_csv('data/processed/dashboard_data.csv', index=False)

print("\n✅ Step 3 Complete!")
```

### 6. Visualization

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import seaborn as sns

plt.style.use('seaborn-v0_8-darkgrid')
sns.set_palette("husl")

# Daily pattern
hourly_avg = feature_data.groupby('hour')['meter_reading'].mean()

plt.figure(figsize=(12, 5))
plt.plot(hourly_avg.index, hourly_avg.values, marker='o', linewidth=2, markersize=8)
plt.title('Average Energy Consumption by Hour of Day', fontsize=14, fontweight='bold')
plt.xlabel('Hour of Day')
plt.ylabel('Average Meter Reading (kWh)')
plt.xticks(range(0, 24))
plt.grid(True, alpha=0.3)
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()

# Model comparison
models = ['LightGBM', 'EBM']
r2_scores = [r2_lgb, r2_ebm]

plt.figure(figsize=(10, 5))
plt.bar(models, r2_scores, color=['steelblue', 'coral'], edgecolor='black', alpha=0.7)
plt.title('R2 Score Comparison', fontsize=14, fontweight='bold')
plt.ylabel('R2 Score')
plt.ylim([0, 1])
plt.grid(True, alpha=0.3, axis='y')
for i, v in enumerate(r2_scores):
    plt.text(i, v + 0.02, f'{v:.2%}', ha='center', fontweight='bold', fontsize=12)
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()

# Actual vs Predicted
results = pd.read_csv('data/processed/dashboard_data.csv')
results['timestamp'] = pd.to_datetime(results['timestamp'])

plt.figure(figsize=(16, 6))
plt.plot(results['timestamp'], results['Actual'], label='Actual', linewidth=2, alpha=0.7)
plt.plot(results['timestamp'], results['Predicted_LGBM'], label='LightGBM', linewidth=2, alpha=0.7)
plt.plot(results['timestamp'], results['Predicted_EBM'], label='EBM', linewidth=2, alpha=0.7)
plt.title('Energy Consumption: Actual vs Predicted', fontsize=14, fontweight='bold')
plt.xlabel('Timestamp')
plt.ylabel('Meter Reading (kWh)')
plt.legend()
plt.grid(True, alpha=0.3)
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()

print("🎉 Complete! LightGBM achieved {:.1f}% accuracy!".format(r2_lgb*100))
```

---

## 🎯 Summary

**Results:**
- LightGBM: ~98% R2 Score
- EBM: ~93% R2 Score
- Dataset: ~6M rows, 45 features, 2.1 GB

**Key Insights:**
- Energy peaks during business hours (9am-5pm)
- Lag features are the strongest predictors
- Temperature correlates with energy use

Commit message:

Update Colab instructions - clarify electricity.csv must be uploaded manually

COLAB_INSTRUCTIONS.md, after:

# WattWise-FL: Complete Pipeline for Google Colab

## ⚠️ Important: Data Setup

The BDG2 electricity.csv file is **167 MB** and **cannot be stored in GitHub** (exceeds 100 MB limit).

**Your repository contains:**
- ✅ `metadata.csv` (266 KB) - in repo
- ✅ `weather.csv` (19 MB) - in repo  
- ❌ `electricity.csv` (167 MB) - **NOT in repo, must upload manually**

### **Option 1: Upload electricity.csv Manually (RECOMMENDED)** ✅

Since electricity.csv is not in the GitHub repository, you need to upload it:

```python
!git clone https://github.com/aryaMehta26/WattWise-FL-Federated-Privacy-Preserving-Energy-Forecasts-for-Smart-Buildings.git
%cd WattWise-FL-Federated-Privacy-Preserving-Energy-Forecasts-for-Smart-Buildings

# Now run the 3 step scripts:
!python src/step1_data_cleaning.py
!python src/step2_feature_engineering.py
!python src/step3_train_models.py
```

### **Option 2: Upload Files Manually**

1. Download these files from your local `data/raw/` folder:
   - `electricity.csv` (167 MB)
   - `metadata.csv` (266 KB)
   - `weather.csv` (19 MB)

2. Upload to Colab:

```python
from google.colab import files
import shutil
from pathlib import Path

# Upload files
print("Upload electricity.csv, metadata.csv, and weather.csv:")
uploaded = files.upload()

# Move to data/raw/
Path('data/raw').mkdir(parents=True, exist_ok=True)
for filename in uploaded.keys():
    shutil.move(filename, f'data/raw/{filename}')
    print(f"✅ Moved {filename} to data/raw/")
```

3. Then run the pipeline (see below)

---

## 📊 Complete Pipeline Code (After Data Setup)

### 1. Install Dependencies

```python
!pip install lightgbm interpret scikit-learn pandas numpy matplotlib seaborn pyyaml -q
print("✅ Dependencies installed!")
```

### 2. Setup Directories

```python
import pandas as pd
import numpy as np
from pathlib import Path
import warnings
warnings.filterwarnings('ignore')

Path('data/raw').mkdir(parents=True, exist_ok=True)
Path('data/interim').mkdir(parents=True, exist_ok=True)
Path('data/processed').mkdir(parents=True, exist_ok=True)
Path('models').mkdir(parents=True, exist_ok=True)

print("✅ Directories created!")
```

### 3. Data Cleaning

```python
print("="*70)
print("📊 STEP 1: DATA CLEANING")
print("="*70)

# Load electricity data
print("\nLoading electricity data...")
electricity = pd.read_csv('data/raw/electricity.csv')
electricity['timestamp'] = pd.to_datetime(electricity['timestamp'])

# Check if wide format
building_cols = [c for c in electricity.columns if c != 'timestamp']
print(f"  Detected {len(building_cols)} building columns (wide format)")

# Melt to long format
print("  Melting to long format...")
electricity_long = electricity.melt(
    id_vars=['timestamp'],
    var_name='building_id',
    value_name='meter_reading'
)

# Filter date range (6 months for speed)
electricity_long = electricity_long[
    (electricity_long['timestamp'] >= '2016-01-01') &
    (electricity_long['timestamp'] <= '2016-06-30')
]

# Load metadata
print("\nLoading metadata...")
metadata = pd.read_csv('data/raw/metadata.csv')

# Load weather
print("Loading weather data...")
weather = pd.read_csv('data/raw/weather.csv')
weather['timestamp'] = pd.to_datetime(weather['timestamp'])

# Merge everything
print("\nMerging datasets...")
df = electricity_long.merge(metadata, on='building_id', how='left')
df = df.merge(weather, on=['site_id', 'timestamp'], how='left')

# Drop missing values
df = df.dropna(subset=['meter_reading', 'air_temperature'])

# Save
df.to_pickle('data/interim/cleaned_data.pkl')

# Print metrics
print("\n" + "="*70)
print("📊 CLEANED DATA METRICS")
print("="*70)
print(f"Total Rows: {df.shape[0]:,}")
print(f"Total Columns: {df.shape[1]}")
print(f"Memory Usage: {df.memory_usage(deep=True).sum() / 1024**3:.2f} GB")
print(f"Date Range: {df['timestamp'].min()} to {df['timestamp'].max()}")
print(f"Number of Buildings: {df['building_id'].nunique()}")
print(f"Number of Sites: {df['site_id'].nunique()}")
print("="*70)

cleaned_data = df.copy()
print("\n✅ Step 1 Complete!")
```

### 4. Feature Engineering

```python
print("="*70)
print("📊 STEP 2: FEATURE ENGINEERING")
print("="*70)

# Calendar features
print("\nAdding calendar features...")
df['hour'] = df['timestamp'].dt.hour
df['day_of_week'] = df['timestamp'].dt.dayofweek
df['month'] = df['timestamp'].dt.month
df['is_weekend'] = (df['day_of_week'] >= 5).astype(int)

# Cyclical encoding
df['hour_sin'] = np.sin(2 * np.pi * df['hour'] / 24)
df['hour_cos'] = np.cos(2 * np.pi * df['hour'] / 24)
df['day_sin'] = np.sin(2 * np.pi * df['day_of_week'] / 7)
df['day_cos'] = np.cos(2 * np.pi * df['day_of_week'] / 7)

# Weather features
print("Adding weather features...")
df['temp_rolling_24h'] = df.groupby('building_id')['air_temperature'].transform(
    lambda x: x.rolling(window=24, min_periods=1).mean()
)

# Building features
print("Adding building features...")
df['building_age'] = 2016 - df['year_built']
df['log_square_feet'] = np.log1p(df['square_feet'])

# Lag features (MOST IMPORTANT!)
print("Adding lag features...")
df = df.sort_values(['building_id', 'timestamp'])
df['meter_reading_lag_1h'] = df.groupby('building_id')['meter_reading'].shift(1)
df['meter_reading_lag_24h'] = df.groupby('building_id')['meter_reading'].shift(24)
df['meter_reading_rolling_24h_mean'] = df.groupby('building_id')['meter_reading'].transform(
    lambda x: x.rolling(window=24, min_periods=1).mean()
)

# Drop rows with missing lags
initial_rows = len(df)
df = df.dropna(subset=['meter_reading_lag_1h', 'meter_reading_lag_24h'])
dropped_rows = initial_rows - len(df)

# Save
df.to_pickle('data/processed/final_features.pkl')

# Print metrics
print("\n" + "="*70)
print("📊 FEATURE-ENGINEERED DATA METRICS")
print("="*70)
print(f"Total Rows: {df.shape[0]:,}")
print(f"Total Columns: {df.shape[1]}")
print(f"Features Added: {df.shape[1] - cleaned_data.shape[1]}")
print(f"Rows Dropped (lag warm-up): {dropped_rows:,}")
print("="*70)

feature_data = df.copy()
print("\n✅ Step 2 Complete!")
```

### 5. Model Training

```python
from sklearn.metrics import r2_score, mean_absolute_error, mean_squared_error
import lightgbm as lgb
from interpret.glassbox import ExplainableBoostingRegressor

print("="*70)
print("📊 STEP 3: MODEL TRAINING")
print("="*70)

# Train/Test Split (time-based)
print("\nSplitting train/test sets...")
dates = df['timestamp'].sort_values().unique()
split_date = dates[int(len(dates) * 0.8)]

train_df = df[df['timestamp'] < split_date]
test_df = df[df['timestamp'] >= split_date]

print(f"  Train: {train_df['timestamp'].min()} -> {train_df['timestamp'].max()}")
print(f"  Test:  {test_df['timestamp'].min()} -> {test_df['timestamp'].max()}")
print(f"  Train Rows: {len(train_df):,} ({len(train_df)/len(df)*100:.1f}%)")
print(f"  Test Rows:  {len(test_df):,} ({len(test_df)/len(df)*100:.1f}%)")

# Select features
target = 'meter_reading'
exclude_cols = ['timestamp', 'meter_reading', 'site_id', 'building_id', 'meter', 
               'primary_use', 'primary_use_grouped', 'timestamp_weather']

features = [c for c in df.columns if c not in exclude_cols]
features = [c for c in features if pd.api.types.is_numeric_dtype(df[c])]

X_train = train_df[features]
y_train = train_df[target]
X_test = test_df[features]
y_test = test_df[target]

print(f"\n  Training with {len(features)} features")

# Train LightGBM
print("\n[MODEL 1] Training LightGBM...")
lgb_model = lgb.LGBMRegressor(n_estimators=100, random_state=42, verbose=-1)
lgb_model.fit(X_train, y_train)

# Predict
y_pred_lgb = lgb_model.predict(X_test)

# Metrics
r2_lgb = r2_score(y_test, y_pred_lgb)
mae_lgb = mean_absolute_error(y_test, y_pred_lgb)
rmsle_lgb = np.sqrt(mean_squared_error(np.log1p(y_test), np.log1p(y_pred_lgb)))

print(f"  R2 Score: {r2_lgb:.4f} ({r2_lgb*100:.1f}% Accuracy)")
print(f"  RMSLE: {rmsle_lgb:.4f}")
print(f"  MAE: {mae_lgb:.2f} kWh")

# Train EBM (on sample for speed)
print("\n[MODEL 2] Training EBM (on 10k sample)...")
sample_size = min(10000, len(X_train))
X_train_sample = X_train.sample(sample_size, random_state=42)
y_train_sample = y_train.loc[X_train_sample.index]

ebm_model = ExplainableBoostingRegressor(random_state=42)
ebm_model.fit(X_train_sample, y_train_sample)

# Predict
y_pred_ebm = ebm_model.predict(X_test)

# Metrics
r2_ebm = r2_score(y_test, y_pred_ebm)
mae_ebm = mean_absolute_error(y_test, y_pred_ebm)
rmsle_ebm = np.sqrt(mean_squared_error(np.log1p(y_test), np.log1p(y_pred_ebm)))

print(f"  R2 Score: {r2_ebm:.4f} ({r2_ebm*100:.1f}% Accuracy)")
print(f"  RMSLE: {rmsle_ebm:.4f}")
print(f"  MAE: {mae_ebm:.2f} kWh")

# Save results
results_df = X_test.copy()
results_df['Actual'] = y_test
results_df['Predicted_LGBM'] = y_pred_lgb
results_df['Predicted_EBM'] = y_pred_ebm
results_df['timestamp'] = test_df['timestamp']
results_df['building_id'] = test_df['building_id']

# Save sample for one building
sample_building = results_df['building_id'].iloc[0]
dashboard_df = results_df[results_df['building_id'] == sample_building].copy()
dashboard_df.to_csv('data/processed/dashboard_data.csv', index=False)

print("\n✅ Step 3 Complete!")
```

### 6. Visualization

```python
import matplotlib.pyplot as plt
import seaborn as sns

plt.style.use('seaborn-v0_8-darkgrid')
sns.set_palette("husl")

# Daily pattern
hourly_avg = feature_data.groupby('hour')['meter_reading'].mean()

plt.figure(figsize=(12, 5))
plt.plot(hourly_avg.index, hourly_avg.values, marker='o', linewidth=2, markersize=8)
plt.title('Average Energy Consumption by Hour of Day', fontsize=14, fontweight='bold')
plt.xlabel('Hour of Day')
plt.ylabel('Average Meter Reading (kWh)')
plt.xticks(range(0, 24))
plt.grid(True, alpha=0.3)
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()

# Model comparison
models = ['LightGBM', 'EBM']
r2_scores = [r2_lgb, r2_ebm]

plt.figure(figsize=(10, 5))
plt.bar(models, r2_scores, color=['steelblue', 'coral'], edgecolor='black', alpha=0.7)
plt.title('R2 Score Comparison', fontsize=14, fontweight='bold')
plt.ylabel('R2 Score')
plt.ylim([0, 1])
plt.grid(True, alpha=0.3, axis='y')
for i, v in enumerate(r2_scores):
    plt.text(i, v + 0.02, f'{v:.2%}', ha='center', fontweight='bold', fontsize=12)
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()

# Actual vs Predicted
results = pd.read_csv('data/processed/dashboard_data.csv')
results['timestamp'] = pd.to_datetime(results['timestamp'])

plt.figure(figsize=(16, 6))
plt.plot(results['timestamp'], results['Actual'], label='Actual', linewidth=2, alpha=0.7)
plt.plot(results['timestamp'], results['Predicted_LGBM'], label='LightGBM', linewidth=2, alpha=0.7)
plt.plot(results['timestamp'], results['Predicted_EBM'], label='EBM', linewidth=2, alpha=0.7)
plt.title('Energy Consumption: Actual vs Predicted', fontsize=14, fontweight='bold')
plt.xlabel('Timestamp')
plt.ylabel('Meter Reading (kWh)')
plt.legend()
plt.grid(True, alpha=0.3)
plt.tight_layout()
plt.show()

print("🎉 Complete! LightGBM achieved {:.1f}% accuracy!".format(r2_lgb*100))
```

---

## 🎯 Summary

**Results:**
- LightGBM: ~98% R2 Score
- EBM: ~93% R2 Score
- Dataset: ~6M rows, 45 features, 2.1 GB

**Key Insights:**
- Energy peaks during business hours (9am-5pm)
- Lag features are the strongest predictors
- Temperature correlates with energy use
